# Contributing

Thank you for showing an interest in contributing!

Before you start, please make a new Issue. I don't always make new issues for all the things I currently work on. By making a new Issue we can hopefully avoid duplicating our efforts.

If you open a pull request, please **make sure to set the correct target**. This is a fork, and GitHub defaults to using the source repository as a target for pull requests. Please don't create needless noise in the upstream repository. The correct target is `wkillerud/vscode-scss` and the branch `main`.

## Conventional commits

This repo uses [conventional commits and `semantic-release`](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release#how-does-it-work) to automatically publish changes merged to `main`.

While not a library, stick to something resembling semantic versioning when writing commit messages.

| Commit message                                                                                                                            | Release type                                                                                                                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `fix: update css-languageservice`                                                                                                         | Patch. Bugfix release, updates for runtime dependencies.                                                                                                             |
| `feat: add support for show keyword in forward`                                                                                           | Minor. New feature release.                                                                                                                                          |
| `refactor: remove reduntant options for latest language version`<br><br>`BREAKING CHANGE: The scanImportedFiles option has been removed.` | Major. Breaking release, like removing an option or changing `engines` version. <br /> (Note that the `BREAKING CHANGE: ` token must be in the footer of the commit) |

## Development environment

You will need these things installed:

- Node.js LTS
- Visual Studio Code stable
- The extension _TypeScript + Webpack Problem Matchers_ (`amodio.tsl-problem-matcher`)

To get started:

- Run `npm install`
- Confirm existing tests are running
  - Run `npm test`
  - Then run `npm run test:e2e`. This downloads VS Code Insiders and runs integration tests.
- Go to the Run and Debug pane in VS Code.
- Select `Launch extension` and start debugging.

Changes will be built automatically, but you need to restart the debugger to see them take effect.

If you get a warning, ensure you have the _TypeScript + Webpack Problem Matchers_ (`amodio.tsl-problem-matcher`) extension installed and active.

## Manual testing

To test your changes:

- Go to the Run and Debug section
- Run the `Launch extension` configuration

A new window should open with the title `[Extension Development Host]`. In this window you can open whatever project you want to use for testing. If you don't have one you can open the folder `fixtures/e2e/` in this repo.

Every time you make a change you need to restart `Launch extension`.

Test your changes and see if they work.

### Test the web extension

[Test your changes on vscode.dev](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-guides/web-extensions#test-your-web-extension-in-on-vscode.dev) once they're stable on desktop, since this extension also works as a web extension.

Follow the instructions from the link above. Summarized:

- In a terminal, run `npx serve --cors -l 6000`
- In a new terminal, run `npx localtunnel -p 6000`
- Open the link generated by `localtunnel`
- Press the Click to Continue button
- Go to `vscode.dev` and open a GitHub repo with SCSS
- Run **Developer: Install Extension from Location...** from the Command Palette
- Paste the link generated by `localtunnel`

## Debugging

If your changes don't work, it's time to do some debugging.

### Debugging the Node (or regular) version

Changes often don't work on the first try. To get a better idea of what's happening, let's debug the _server_ portion of the extension.

In this extension there is a client part and a server part, and most of the work happens in the server part.

You can set breakpoints to inspect what is really happening in your code. Unfortunately, at time of writing you must set these breakpoints in the _compiled output_ in `dist/node-server.js`.

Open `dist/node-server.js`, search for a function name close to where you want to debug, and place breakpoints where you would like. Then test your changes in the Extension Development Host again. Hopefully you should see the code pause on your breakpoint. If not, try to place breakpoints elsewhere. Something unexpected may stop you from reaching your code.

### Debugging the web version

You may have noticed there are two versions of the extension in the `dist/` folder.

- Node
- Browser

The browser run in the browser as a [web extension](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/extension-guides/web-extensions). It works more or less the same as the regular Node version, except it doesn't have direct access to the file system. We work around this by making requests to the client-side of the extension, which then uses the [FileSystem API](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/references/vscode-api#FileSystem) to work with files and directories.

To debug the web version:

- Go to the Run and Debug section
- Run the Launch Web Extension in VS Code configuration

You can set breakpoints in the TypeScript source code for the client. For the server you need to set breakpoints in the compiled output.

Open `dist/browser-server.js`, search for a function name close to where you want to debug, and place breakpoints where you would like. Then test your changes in the Extension Development Host again. Hopefully you should see the code pause on your breakpoint. If not, try to place breakpoints elsewhere. Something unexpected may stop you from reaching your code.

### Debugging unit tests

Unit tests can be useful tools to debug more efficiently. If you want to debug using a unit test, the same rule applies – you have to set breakpoints on the compiled output.

Tests are compiled to `server/out/test/`. Find your test, or the code you want to debug in the `server/out/` folder, and set breakpoints.

The extension Mocha Test Explorer (`hbenl.vscode-mocha-test-adapter`) is useful to launch individual tests in debug mode. Install the extension, open your unit test, and press the Debug button that should appear over your test. Hopefully you should see the code pause on your breakpoint. If not, try to place breakpoints elsewhere. Something unexpected may stop you from reaching your code.

### Debugging integration tests

Integration tests run in the Extension Development Host, and are more realistic than unit tests. However, sometimes they can be tricky to write. You can debug the tests temselves if you'd like.

This method of debugging is **not recommended** if you want to debug the functionality itself. Instead, debug using the Client + Server configuration explained above, and perform the test manually.

If you still want to debug the integration tests there are a few things to keep in mind, since tests run in this way use your main stable install of VS Code (not Insiders, like from the terminal):

- You will need to install Vetur (`octref.vetur`), Astro (`astro-build.astro-vscode`) and Svelte for VS Code (`svelte.svelte-vscode`).
- You **must** use default settings for Some Sass. Tip: use the included Workspace Settings.
- To compile changes in test code, run `npm run compile` in the `e2e` directory.

Again, breakpoints must be set in the compiled output. Integration tests are compiled to `e2e/out/suite/`. Breakpoints can _only be set in test code_, meaning any code in the `e2e/out/` folder.

Now you are ready to start debugging!

Breakpoints set, go to the Run and Debug and run the Integration Tests configuration. Hopefully you should see the code pause on your breakpoint. If not, try to place breakpoints elsewhere. Something unexpected may stop you from reaching your code.

### Debugging integration tests for the web extension

Unfortunately there are no integration tests for the web version at the moment.
